What makes an Adaptation good? 
I recently watched Hail Mary in theatres. I really loved the movie. I thought it did a lot of things really good thematically and It was a fun ride throughout. The humour was amazing, The storytelling was incredibly gripping, the characters were lovable, the visuals were stunning. I could not give a lot of criticisms to the movie even if I tried. 
I felt really good about the movie and I looked online afterwards to see public discussions on it. I was very very suprised to find that a lot of people thought it was a "garbage movie".
I was very very confused about this. 
Did all of us not watch the same movie? Did they not see the same scenes where I cried? I did not understand
People kept telling me that the movie was not a faithful adaptation of the origianl, that it divulged over so much scientific information that was shown in the book.
While I understand the sentiment, an adaptation has to play to its strengths. A book has the advantage that it will be read over an extended period of time, lets say a few days to a few weeks. There can be a lot more chances to flesh out every little detail. To make the readers minds race, to develop deeper connections to the same characters using the reader himself. So much more can be explained about the intricate workings of the spaceships, about the daily routine, the meaningless interactions with a variety of characters. 
A movie does not allow that. 
In a tight 2 hour experience, the same cannot be said, Characters need to feel connected in a tinier space of time. The expositions that would normally be explaied through words needs to be 'shown' to the audience (show not tell). The visual medium provides for extended forms of communication such as audio and visuals too, the same themes would be conveyed in a different way. 
I understand the discontent of the people who were hoping for something else after reading the book, but movies are fundamentally different. 
The movie is not without it faults though I must say. Even I, after defending it, would like more explanation on the scientific aspects of it. How they were able to just suddenly invent interplanatery travel. how Xenophite works, the weird as hell manuvering of the space vehicle, how rocky was able to communicate with him. 
The movie is without its flaws. But it was still an amazing experience that showed a lot of heart. 
The people who call the movie just bad without any reason tho, they are stupid
